<h1 align="center">
  Tarpaulin Server
</h1>

<p align="center">
  OSU CS 493/599 Final Project
</p>

The application for which you’ll write an API for this project is Tarpaulin, a lightweight course management tool that’s an “alternative” to Canvas.  In particular, Tarpaulin allows users (instructors and students) to see information about the courses they’re teaching/taking.  It allows instructors to create assignments for their courses, and it allows students to submit solutions to those assignments.

The Tarpaulin API you implement must support all of the endpoints described in the [Tarpaulin OpenAPI specification](./openapi.yaml).  You can load this specification into the editor at [swagger.io](https://editor.swagger.io) to see automatically-generated documentation for all the API endpoints you’ll need to implement for the final project. Importantly, you are free to implement these endpoints however you see fit.  For example, you may use whatever database you want, and you may design your API architecture to meet your own needs.

The OpenAPI specification linked above will provide most of the details of the API you’ll implement, but some more details are included below.

# Table of Contents

- [Entities](#entities)
  - [Users](#users)
  - [Courses](#courses)
  - [Assignments](#assignments)
  - [Submissions](#submissions)
- [Actions](#actions)
  - [Course roster download](#course-roster-download)
  - [Assignment submission creation](#assignment-submission-creation)
  - [User data fetching](#user-data-fetching)
  - [Course information fetching](#course-information-fetching)
- [Pagination](#pagination)
- [Authorization](#authorization)
- [Rate limiting](#rate-limiting)
- [Docker containerization](#docker-containerization)
- [Grading criteria](#grading-criteria)
- [Usage](#usage)

# Entities

There are several kinds of entity the Tarpaulin API will need to keep track of:

### Users

These represent Tarpaulin application users.  Each User can have one of three roles: `admin`, `instructor`, and `student`.  Each of these roles represents a different set of permissions to perform certain API actions.  The permissions associated with these roles are defined further in the Tarpaulin OpenAPI specification.

### Courses

These represent courses being managed in Tarpaulin.  Each Course has basic information, such as subject code, number, title, instructor, etc.  Each Course also has associated data of other entity types, including a list of enrolled students (i.e. Tarpaulin Users with the `student` role) as well as a set of assignments.  More details about how to manage these pieces of data are included both below and in the Tarpaulin OpenAPI specification linked above.

### Assignments

These represent a single assignment for a Tarpaulin Course.  Each Assignment belongs to a specific Course and has basic information such as a title, due date, etc.  It also has a list of individual student submissions.

### Submissions

These represent a single student submission for an Assignment in Tarpaulin.  Each submission belongs both to its Assignment to the student who submitted it, and it is marked with a submission timestamp.  Each submission is also associated with a specific file, which will be uploaded to the Tarpaulin API and stored, so it can be downloaded later.  Finally, each submission may be assigned a grade, though grades cannot be assigned when the submission is first created but must be assigned later through an update operation.

# Actions

Many of the actions that can be performed with the Tarpaulin API are similar to ones we’ve seen in the work we’ve done in class, including fetching entity data and creating, modifying, and deleting entities.  These actions should not need much explanation beyond what’s included in the Tarpaulin OpenAPI specification.  A few specific actions deserve more attention, though:

### Course roster download

This action, implemented by the `GET /courses/{id}/roster` endpoint, allows certain authorized users to download a CSV-formatted roster for a specific course.  The roster will contain a list of the students currently enrolled in the course, in CSV format, e.g.:

```
"abc123","Leia Organa","organal@oregonstate.edu"
"def456","Luke Skywalker","skywallu@oregonstate.edu"
```

Importantly, this file must be generated by the API, based on the list of enrolled students stored in the database.

### Assignment submission creation

This action, implemented by the `POST /assignments/{id}/submissions` endpoint, allows authorized `student` Users to upload a file submission for a specific assignment.  Importantly, the file uploaded for each Submission must be stored by the API in such a way that it can be later downloaded via URL.  Specifically, when storing the submission file, the API should generate the URL with which that file can later be accessed.  This URL will be returned along with the rest of the information about the Submission from the `GET /assignments/{id}/submissions` endpoint.

### User data fetching

This action, implemented by the `GET /users/{id}` endpoint, allows Users to see their own data.  Importantly, only a logged-in User can see their own data.  The data returned by this endpoint should also include the list of classes the User is enrolled in (for `student` Users) or teaching (for `instructor` Users).

### Course information fetching

This action, implemented by the `GET /courses` and `GET /courses/{id}` endpoints, allows users to see information about all Courses or about a specific Course.  Note that the information included by both of these endpoints should not return information about a Course’s enrolled students or its Assignments.  Instead, that information can be fetched by the `GET /courses/{id}/students` and `GET /courses/{id}/assignments` endpoints, respectively.

# Pagination

A few of the Tarpaulin API endpoints must be paginated:

- `GET /courses`
- `GET /assignments/{id}/submissions`

It’s up to you to determine the appropriate way to paginate these endpoints, including how the page size is set, etc.

# Authorization

Many of the endpoints in the Tarpaulin API require authorization, as described in the Tarpaulin OpenAPI specification.  You may implement this using the standard JWT-based authorization scheme we discussed in class.

# Rate limiting

Your API should be rate-limited as follows:
- For requests made without a valid authentication token, your API should permit 10 requests/minute.  These requests should be rate-limited on a per-IP address basis.
- For requests made *with* a valid authentication token, your API should permit 30 requests per minute.  These requests should be rate-limited on a per-user basis.

# Docker containerization

All services used by your API (e.g. databases, caches, processing pipelines, etc.) should be run in Docker containers.  These containers can be manually created and initialized via the command line.

# Grading criteria

For teams of students in the undergraduate section of the course, your grade for the final project out of 100 points will be based on successfully implementing a complete API that satisfies these criteria:

- [ ] 50 points – Your API successfully implements all of the endpoints described in the Tarpaulin OpenAPI specification.
- [ ] 10 points – Your API endpoints correctly require authorization, as described in the Tarpaulin OpenAPI specification.
- [ ] 5 points – Your API correctly paginates the appropriate endpoints, as described above and in the Tarpaulin OpenAPI specification.
- [ ] 5 points – Your API implements rate limiting, as described above.
- [ ] 10 points – Your API’s services are run in Docker containers, as described above.
- [ ] 10 points – You have a set of tests/requests written and ready to go at your grading demo to fully demonstrate your API’s functionality.
- [ ] 10 points – Your API has a high-quality design and implementation.

Remember also, if your team does not do a demo for your project, you will receive a zero for it.

# Usage

First enter the `server` directory:

```
$ cd server
```

From here you can install all dependencies with `npm`.

```
$ npm i
```

Run the server for development using:

```
$ npm run start
```

Run linting prior to committing using:

```
$ npm run lint:fix
or
$ npm run lint
```

Testing can be run with:

```
$ npm run test
or
$ npm run test:verbose
```

Build to Javascript using:

```
$ npm run build
```

And delete the previous build using:

```
$ npm run clean
```